++Representational State Transfer(Rest):
REST is acronym for REpresentational State Transfer.
It is architectural style for distributed hypermedia systems and was first presented by Roy Fielding in 2000
REST is acronym for REpresentational State Transfer. It is architectural style for distributed hypermedia systems and was first presented by Roy Fielding in 2000 in his famous dissertation.
Rest architecture that runs on the HTTP protocol in the communication between client and server.
REST is a transfer method used in software based on service oriented architecture.
It provides communication between the client and the server by carrying XML and JSON data.
Services using REST architecture are called RESTful services.

Like any other architectural style, REST also does have it’s own 6 guiding constraints which must be satisfied if an interface needs to be referred as RESTful.
These principles are listed below:

Client-server: By seperating the user interface concerns from the data storage concerns,we improve the portability of user interface
across multiple platforms and improve scalability by simplyfying the server components.

Stateless: Each request from client to server must contain all of the information necessary to understand  the request and cannot take adv
of any stored context on the server.
Session state is therefore kept entirely on the client.

Cacheable:
Cache constraints require that the data within a response to a equest be implicitly or explicitly labeled as cacheable or non-cacheable.
If a response is cacheable then a client cache is given the right to reuse that response data for later, equivalent requests.

Uniform interface:
By applying the software engineering principle of generality to the component interface, the overall system architecture is simplified and
the visibility of interactions is improved.
In order to obtain a uniform interface, multiple architectural constrainst are needed to guide the behavior of components.
REST is defined by four interface sontraints identification of resources manipulation of resources through representations
self-descriptive messages and hypermedia as the engine of application state.

Layered system:
The layered system style allows an architecture to be composed of hierarchical layers by constraining component behavior such that each
component cannot see beyond the immediate layer with which they are interacting.

Code on demand(optional):
REST allows client functionaility to be extended by downloading and executing code in the form of applets or scripts.
This simplifies clients by reducing the number of features required to be pre-implemented.



HTTP Methods:
GET: Lists and shows data. Must be secure. It is not secure because data is shown on url. Can make it secure with MD5.
GET : /orders/{id}

POST: Insert data or update data. Not shown in URL. More secure.
POST: /orders/

PUT: Updates data. Difference from POST is that even the request is repeated the result will be same.
PUT : /orders/{id}

PATCH: Used for updating a single part of the data.
PATCH /addresses/1

DELETE: Used for deleting data.
DELETE /addresses/id


HTTP Status Codes:
We encounte various HTTP Status Codes returning from APIs.
These codes provide us with info on whether the transactions are successful or not as well as what went wrong in the application.
1XX Informative codes
2XX Success codes
3XX Redirect codes
4XX Client error codes
5XX Server error codes

References:
restfulapi.net,What is REST?
halilozel1903,medium,rest ve restful nedir?
bsrutmn,medium,Rest ve restful servis nedir?
