++How does Internet work?
The internet is a worldwide computer network that transmits a variety of data and media across interconnected devices.
It works by using a packet routing network that follows Internet Protocol (IP) and Transport Control Protocol (TCP).
TCP and IP work together to ensure that data transmission across the internet is consistent and reliable, no matter what.
When data is transferred over the internet, it’s delivered in messages and packets.
Data sent over the internet is called a message, but before messages get sent, they’re broken up into tinier parts called packets.
These messages and packets travel from one source to the next using Internet Protocol (IP) and Transport Control Protocol (TCP) and sometimes with UDP.
IP is a system of rules that govern how information is sent from one computer to another computer over an internet connection.
Using a numerical address (IP Address) the IP system receives further instructions on how the data should be transferred.
The Transport Control Protocol (TCP) works with IP to ensure transfer of data is dependable and reliable.
This helps to make sure that no packets are lost, packets are reassembled in proper sequence, and there’s no delay negatively affecting the data quality.

++What is HTTP?
HTTP is a protocol which allows the fetching of resources, such as HTML documents.
Designed in the early 1990s, HTTP is an extensible protocol which has evolved over time.
It is the foundation of any data exchange on the Web and it is a client-server protocol, which means requests are initiated by the recipient, usually the Web browser.
A complete document is reconstructed from the different sub-documents fetched, for instance text, layout description, images, videos, scripts, and more.
Clients and servers communicate by exchanging individual messages (as opposed to a stream of data).
The messages sent by the client, usually a "Web browser", are called requests and the messages sent by the server as an answer are called responses.
It is an application layer protocol that is sent over TCP, or over a TLS-encrypted TCP connection, though any reliable transport protocol could theoretically be used.
Due to its extensibility, it is used to not only fetch hypertext documents, but also images and videos or to post content to servers, like with HTML form results.
HTTP can also be used to fetch parts of documents to update Web pages on demand.

++Browsers and how they work?
A browser is a software application used to locate, retrieve and display content on the World Wide Web, including Web pages, images, video and other files.
As a client/server model, the browser is the client run on a computer that contacts the Web server and requests information.
The Web server sends the information back to the Web browser which displays the results on the computer or other Internet-enabled device that supports a browser.
Main components of the browser:
1_User Interface: The interface on browser which user interacts with the browser(back,next,home,refreshp,stop buttons).
2_ Browser Engine: A bridge between user interface and rendering engine. It queries and manipulates the rendering engine according to the inputs from interface.
3_ Rendering Engine: Renders the requested web page on the browser screen. Different browsers use different rendering engines.
4_ Networking: Retrieves the URLs using HTTP and FTP. Handles all aspects of Internet communication and security.(It may implement a cache of retrieved documents)
5_ JavaScript Interpreter: Interprets and executes the javascript code embedded in the website. If script is external then first the resource is fetched from the network.
Paser keeps on hold until the script is executed.
6_ UI Backend: Used for drawing basic widgets like combo boxes and windows. THis backend exposes a generic interface that is not platform specific.
7_ Data Persistence/Storage: Browser support storage mechanisms on the local drive. It manages user data such as cache, cookies,bookmarks and preferences.

++What is Domain Name?
A domain name is an identification string that defines a realm of administrative autonomy, authority or control within the Internet.
Domain names are used in various networking contexts and for application-specific naming and addressing purposes.
It is used because people can't remember Ip addresses but can remember strings.

++DNS and how it works?
The Domain Name System (DNS) is a central part of the internet, providing a way to match names (a website you’re seeking) to numbers (the address for the website).
DNS syncs up domain names with IP addresses enabling humans to use memorable domain names while computers on the internet can use IP addresses.
DNS working steps:
1_ Query: When you type google.com into browser,your browser sends a query over the internet to find the website. 
A query is a question seeking to match the domain name with its corresponding IP address.
The first server your query interacts with is the recursive resolver which can be operated by your ISP(internet service provider).
2_ Root Servers: The first type of DNS server the recursive resolver talks to is called Root Server.
The Root Servers are running all over the world(13 sets of 300+ root servers) each knows DNS info about Top Level Domains such as ".com" .
To begin answering your query the recursive resolver asks a root server for DNS info about ".com".
3_ TLD Name Server: Returns the address informations of DNS server to recursive resolver.
4 _ The Domain's Name Server: DNS server returns the IP address of the website to recursive resolver.
5 _ Website appears: Browser send request to the website to retrieve website's content using IP address it just learned.

++What is hosting?
Web hosting is the process of renting or buying space to house a website on the World Wide Web.
When a hosting provider allocates space on a web server for a website to store its files, they are hosting a website.
Web hosting makes the files that comprise a website (code, images, etc.) available for viewing online. Every website you’ve ever visited is hosted on a server.
The amount of space allocated on a server to a website depends on the type of hosting.
The main types of hosting are shared, dedicated, VPS and reseller.
They are differentiated by the kind of technology used for the server, the level of management provided and the additional services on offer.

References: 
store.hp.com,how does the Internet work
developer.mozilla.org, An overview of HTTP
monica1109,medium.com,How does web browsers work?
cloudflare.com,What is DNS?
verisign.com. How DNS Works
namecheap.com,What is web hosting?
